\newpage

# Cost of Debt & Cost of Capital

## Cost of Debt

The cost of debt represents the rate a company pays to borrow money for the long term. While companies often utilize both short-term and long-term debt, it's crucial to focus on the long-term cost of debt for valuation purposes as it reflects the sustained borrowing rate. Although short-term debt might have a lower initial cost, its impact will eventually be reflected when it needs to be refinanced.

One common method to estimate the cost of debt is to start with the current yield on a 10-year Treasury Bond (considered a risk-free rate) and add a default spread. Rating agencies, such as Moody's and Standard & Poor's, assess the creditworthiness of bonds. For publicly traded companies, the typical bond yield associated with a specific credit rating is readily available.

### Synthetic Rating

When a company's bonds are not officially rated, it's possible to estimate a synthetic rating. A significant factor in determining the default spread is the **Interest Coverage Ratio (ICR)**, calculated as $\frac{\text{EBIT}}{\text{Interest Expenses}}$. A higher ICR indicates a greater ability to cover interest payments, thus lowering the perceived risk. Additionally, the size of the company (large or small) can also influence the estimated rating. By considering both the ICR and company size, we can approximate a bond rating and, consequently, a relevant default spread.

> **Example: 2004 A+ Synthetic Rating**
>
> In 2004, a large company with an ICR between 5.5 and 6.5, or a small company with an ICR between 7.5 and 9.5, could be assigned an A+ rating. The typical default spread associated with an A+ rating at that time was 0.7%.

### Country Effects

Historically, rating agencies often imposed a constraint where a company could not have a credit rating higher than the sovereign rating of the country in which it was incorporated. While this rule might have evolved, the country of incorporation still significantly influences a company's bond rating and, consequently, its cost of debt. To account for this, we can expand our cost of debt calculation:

$$
  \mathrm{CoD}=r_f+\underbrace{\kappa\ s_c}_{\text{country default spread}}+\underbrace{s_f}_{\text{firm default spread}}
  \label{eq:cod}
$$

Where:

* $r_f$ is the risk-free rate.
* $s_c$ is the default spread of the country.
* $\kappa$ is a factor reflecting the sensitivity of the company's rating to the country's rating (often 1).
* $s_f$ is the firm-specific default spread.

### Tax Effect

Interest payments on debt are typically tax-deductible, which effectively reduces the cost of debt for the company. To reflect this tax advantage, we multiply the pre-tax cost of debt by (1 - marginal tax rate). It's important to use the company's **marginal tax rate**, which is the tax rate applicable to the next dollar of earnings, rather than the effective tax rate. For example, the average marginal tax rate in the US in 2024 was around 25%.

$$
  \mathrm{CoD}=\mathrm{CoD_{pre-tax}}(1-t)
  \label{eq:cod_tax}
$$

Combining the country effect and the tax effect, we arrive at the final formula for the cost of debt:

$$
  \boxed{
  \mathrm{CoD}=\left(r_f+\kappa\ s_c+s_f\right)(1-t)}
$$

### Subsidized Debt

Some companies may have access to debt with interest rates lower than the prevailing market rates, often through government programs or mandated bank loans.

It's crucial to recognize that this subsidized debt is usually temporary and shouldn't be used to artificially lower the long-term cost of debt. Ignoring it, however, can lead to an inflated cost of capital. A reasonable approach is to:

1.  **Calculate the total savings** generated by the subsidized debt over its lifetime: $D_\mathrm{savings}=(r_m-r_s)\cdot D$, where $r_m$ is the market interest rate, $r_s$ is the subsidized rate, and $D$ is the amount of subsidized debt.
2.  **Discount these savings** back to the present value using an appropriate discount rate (often the market cost of debt): $D_\mathrm{sav,\ actual} = \sum^{n}\frac{D_\mathrm{savings}}{(1+r)^i}$.

$$
 D_\mathrm{sav,\ actual} = \sum^{n}\frac{(r_m-r_s)D}{(1+r)^i}
 \label{eq:discount}
$$

It's also important to consider any additional costs or restrictions that might be associated with such subsidized debt.

## Cost of Capital

The Cost of Capital (CoC), also known as the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC), represents the average rate of return a company must earn on its existing assets to satisfy its creditors and shareholders. When calculating the CoC, we need to determine the appropriate weights for the Cost of Debt (CoD) and the Cost of Equity (CoE).

Since every Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) valuation inherently assumes a hypothetical acquisition of the company today, the weights used for debt and equity should reflect the company's current capital structure.

$$
\boxed{
  \mathrm{CoC}=w_E \mathrm{CoE}+ w_D \mathrm{CoD}
}
$$

Where:

* $w_E$ is the weight of equity in the capital structure.
* $\mathrm{CoE}$ is the cost of equity.
* $w_D$ is the weight of debt in the capital structure.
* $\mathrm{CoD}$ is the cost of debt (after tax).

### Convertible Bonds

Calculating the cost of capital becomes more complex when a company has hybrid instruments like convertible bonds. A convertible bond has characteristics of both debt (regular interest payments) and equity (the option to convert into shares). To address this, we need to separate the debt and equity components of the convertible bond.

#### Debt Portion

To determine the value of the debt component, we calculate the present value of the future interest payments and the face value of the bond, discounting them at the market interest rate for a non-convertible bond with the same risk profile (based on the company's rating).

Given:

* Face value of the bond, $F$.
* Market interest rate for similar non-convertible bonds, $r_\mathrm{rating}$.
* Years to maturity, $M$.
* Stated coupon rate of the convertible bond, $r_b$.

The value of the debt portion ($D$) can be calculated as:

$$
  D=\frac{F}{(1+r_\mathrm{rating})^M}+\sum_{i=1}^M \frac{r_b F}{(1+r_\mathrm{rating})^i}
  \label{eq:debt_portion}
$$

#### Equity Portion

The value of the equity component ($E$) is then derived by subtracting the value of the debt portion from the market capitalization ($MC$) of the convertible bond:

$$
  E=MC-D
  \label{eq:equity_portion}
$$

Once we have separated the debt and equity values, we can use these values to calculate the weights for the Cost of Debt and Cost of Equity in the WACC calculation.




\newpage

> **Example: Cost of Capital - Embraer** (currency USD)
>
> __Cost of Equity__
>
> | __Item__                                                | __Value__             |
> | :------------------------------------------------------ | :------------------ |
> | Risk-free rate (10-year US Treasury Bills)             | 4.29%               |
> | Levered Beta ($\beta_L$) (using the gross debt ratio)   | 1.07                |
> | Equity Risk Premium (ERP)                               | 4.00%               |
> | Lambda ($\lambda$) (regression against Brazil bond)     | 0.27                |
> | Country Risk Premium (Brazil)                           | 7.89%               |
> \vspace{-24pt}
> $$ \mathrm{CoE}=r_f+\beta_L \cdot \mathrm{ERP}+\lambda \cdot \mathrm{CRP}=4.29\%+1.07(4.00\%)+0.27(7.89\%)=10.7\% \label{eq:embraer_coe}$$
>
> __Cost of Debt__
>
> | __Item__                                                | __Value__             |
> | :------------------------------------------------------ | :------------------ |
> | Risk-free rate                                          | 4.29%               |
> | Firm Default Spread                                     | 4.00%               |
> | Country Default Spread                                  | 1.00%               |
> \vspace{-18pt}
> This is then adjusted for the marginal tax rate in Brazil (34%):
> \vspace{-6pt}
> $$
>   \mathrm{CoD}=(1-t)(r_f+s_c+s_f)=(1-0.34)(4.29\%+1.00\%+4.00\%)=0.66 \times 9.29\% = 6.13\%
>   \label{eq:cod-embraer}
> $$
>
> __Weights__
>
> | __Item__                                                | __Value__             |
> | :------------------------------------------------------ | :------------------ |
> | __Market Value of Equity (Market Cap)__                 | 3350 mln BR         |
> | __Market Value of Debt (computed as a bond)__           |                     |
> | $\qquad$ Interest expenses from income statement       | 222 million BR      |
> | $\qquad$ Weighted average maturity of debt ($M$)       | 4 years             |
> | $\qquad$ Debt from balance sheet (Face Value, $F$)      | 1953 million BR     |
> \vspace{-18pt}
> $$
> \mathrm{D}=\frac{F}{(1+\mathrm{CoD})^M}+\sum_{i=1}^M \frac{C_i}{(1+\mathrm{CoD})^i}
> $$
>
> Where $C_i$ represents the interest payment in year $i$.
> \vspace{-6pt}
> $$
> \mathrm{D}=\frac{1953}{(1+0.0613)^4}+\sum_{i=1}^4 \frac{222}{(1+0.0613)^i} \approx \mathrm{2083 mln BR}
>   \label{eq:debt}
> $$
>
> __Cost of Capital__
>
> Now we can calculate the WACC using the market values of equity and debt:
> \vspace{-6pt}
> $$
>   \mathrm{CoC}=w_E \mathrm{CoE}+ w_D \mathrm{CoD}=\frac{3350}{3350+2083}10.7\%+\frac{2083}{3350+2083}6.13\%=\frac{3350}{5433}10.7\%+\frac{2083}{5433}6.13\% \approx 8.94\%
>   \label{eq:cost of capital}
> $$
>
> It's also straightforward to convert the Cost of Capital to a different currency by considering the inflation rate differentials between the two currencies:
> \vspace{-6pt}
> $$
>   \mathrm{CoC}_\mathrm{currency}=(1+\mathrm{CoC}_\$)\left(\frac{1+i_\mathrm{currency}}{1+i_\$}\right) - 1
>   \label{eq:costofcapital_currency}
> $$
>
> Where $i_\mathrm{currency}$ and $i_\$$ are the expected inflation rates in the target currency and the base currency.
